# Data-Bootcamp-Final-Project

This project was completed by Shubham Surana here in partial fulfilment of ECON-UB.0232, Data Bootcamp, Spring 2018. I certify that the NYU Stern Honor Code applies to this project. In particular, I have:
Clearly acknowledged the work and efforts of others when submitting written work as our own. The incorporation of the work of others–including but not limited to their ideas, data, creative expression, and direct quotations (which should be designated with quotation marks), or para- phrasing thereof– has been fully and appropriately referenced using notations both in the text and the bibliography.
And I understand that:
Submitting the same or substantially similar work in multiple courses, either in the same semester or in a different semester, without the express approval of all instructors is strictly forbidden.
I acknowledge that a failure to abide by NYU Stern Honor Code will result in a failing grade for the project and course.
Project Description

This project examines the cryptocurrency industry and how prices of individual currencies experience price volatility in correlation to other currencies in the market. One of the big questions I seek to answer is whether individual cryptocurrencies have a stronger correlation to the price movements of other cryptos and if that correlation has increased or decreased from the recent spike in trading in the last few months. While bitcoin has now become mainstream, the aggregate cryptocurrency market is still an infant industry. Proponents of blockchain have hailed the technology as revolutionary and analogized it to the internet in the 1980s. Yet, given their decentralized nature, world governments have thus far struggled to pass comprehensive regulations on the industry. Some have opted for outright trading bans (China, Cambodia, Bangladesh etc.) due to fears of money-laundering and fruadulent ICOs (initial coin offerings). Because a coin's value is determined by its expected future rate of adoption, I hypothesize that as more cryptocurrencies come into further adoption, the market will rise in tandem. I expect that my calculations will show a high degree of correlations between the price movements of different cryptocurrencies and I hope that this will project can provide powerful tools for cryto traders to visualize the day-to-day movements of cryptocurrencies of their choosing. In my analysis, I will attempt to chart the prices of bitcoin and 6 other altcoins (Ethereum, Ripple, EOS, Litecoin, Stellarlumens, and NEO). I plan on creating price charts over the past 3 years and then creating a correlation heatmap to help traders visualize the movement of different cryptocurrencies in a day and relative ot each other.

I will also display meaningul statistics based on the data in my final product. 
